---
layout: page
title: Publications
---


[A Deep Learning Approach for Speed Bump and Pothole Detection Using Sensor Data](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-16-1338-8_7) 

The proposed system, SPD [Speed Bump and Pothole Detection], aims at detecting and notifying a user of upcoming road anomalies such as speed bumps and potholes in real time. The system collects live sensor data from a detection hardware module which comprises a Raspberry Pi, GPS module and a 3-axis accelerometer. This sensor data collected simultaneously from multiple users is then pushed on to the Cloud. It is then pre-processed to get the required sequences of data points and then fed to a 3-class classifier which uses a Recurrent Neural Network Model (Long Short-term Memory with Adaptive moment estimation [Adam] optimizer). The system classifies the given sequence of data points as ROAD, SPEED BUMP or POTHOLE. The system was validated using 20 km of real-world data and achieved an average accuracy of 80%.

[Energy efficient VM scheduling in Reservation supported Cloud Data Centers under availability constraints](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9498421)

The exponential surge in digital usage is resulting in a significant need for computational resources. This has led to businesses migrating to the cloud for benefits like usage of resources as a service, scalability, etc. Infrastructures supporting these businesses will need to conserve energy in the context of the ever-increasing size of the data centers and provide a highly available environment with mechanisms for business continuity, disaster recovery, etc. These would need to be supported at minimal costs while meeting the expected performance along with conformance to the SLAs. This paper considers a cost-efficient resource reservation based environment and evolves an approach to perform energy-efficient VM scheduling with migrations, while factoring in the network Overheads, having Availability as a constraint, and orchestrating the devices in terms of Dynamic Voltage Frequency Scaling, for optimal energy usage. Two novel algorithms are proposed: the Power and Availability Aware Best Fit Decreasing (PAABFD) allocation policy and the Power Availability Network DVFS Aware (PANDA) migration policy, when combined achieving up to 82.35% improvement in data center energy while offering an availability of 99.999% when compared with other scheduling policies.

[Scheduling Microservice Containers on Large Core Machines Through Placement and Coalescing](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-88224-2_5) 

Current applications deployed on the cloud use the microservice programming model to enable rapid deployment. Due to the loosely coupled nature of the interactions between microservices, they are well suited for the distributed nature of cloud systems. However, we are seeing a trend of increasing core counts on newer server hardware and scheduling microservices agnostic to the local organization of cores and memory on these systems leads to sub-optimal performance. In this paper, we propose a placement scheme to map containers of a microservice to various cores on such machines to maximize performance. We further study the impact of various parameters such as packet sizes and database sizes on the placement scheme and demonstrate that our placement scheme increases throughput by 22% while simultaneously lowering tail latency. Finally, we propose a mechanism to dynamically coalesce services on commonly called paths into a single container and demonstrate a further 7.5% improvement in throughput.

[Performance sensitivity of Operating System parameters in Microservice environments](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9499326) 

Cloud services are undergoing a major shift from monolithic applications to graphs of hundreds of loosely-coupled microservices. Microservice architecture presents both opportunities and challenges while optimizing for system characterization and resource utilization. In this study, we characterize the performance sensitivity of Operating System parameters for two academic microservice benchmarks with respect to their thread scheduling, disk writes, and the TCP buffer. We demonstrate that through simple affinitization of kernel threads to cores of a Non-Uniform Memory Access processor and disk buffer configurations, there is a 26% and 19% decrease in Average Latency accompanied by a 27% decrease in 99% Tail latency for the benchmarks under consideration. While performance improvements can be gained, we also show that alternate nonoptimal configurations of the system parameters degrade the performance substantially.

[Characterization and detection of Parkinson’s Disease, A data driven approach](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9276892) 

This study aims to examine diagnostic data of patients suffering from the Parkinson's disease to identify characteristics that are distinctive in the presence of Parkinson's. The study discovered numerous new correlations such as male Parkinson's subjects being heavier than their non-Parkinson's counterparts but indicated no such trend in females. The study also validated previously existing theories including the morphological alterations of the Caudate and Putamen nuclei in the brain as a result of Parkinson's. Independent datasets obtained from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative dataset are explored in this study. Furthermore, datasets are created by combining the available data and standard machine learning models are employed to detect the presence of the Parkinson's disease. A maximum accuracy of 96% was achieved by the Decision Tree model on a merged dataset consisting of medical history, socio-economic background and mobility data.

[Data Analysis of Air Pollutant Levels in India](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9298391) 

Air pollution, one of the most serious problems in the world also manifests as a major risk to health and the environment. This study focuses on analysing the air quality trends by means of Air Quality Index (AQI) and the pollutant levels in India over the years of 2016-2018. The results show that air quality has been plummeting as years pass by and calculation of parameters such as AQI(Air quality index) helped us arrive at this conclusion. The hourly changes revealed that peaks of pollutant levels from 8:00 - 10:00 as well as 17:00 - 19:00. Striking trends were observed with respect to bandh days, festivals and harvesting seasons.Rainfall confirms to a negative correlation with pollution levels. Investigation results elucidates that industrial activities, indiscriminate open air burning of crops by the farmers, vehicular traffic etc. are responsible for the high concentration of pollutants. A first principles method of forecasting pollution levels reveals that a naive set of parameters do not prove to be efficacious.
